first draft for new GS (#557)
Avaiga/taipy-doc: docs/getting_started-new/index.md

---
hide:
  - navigation
---

# Getting Started with Taipy

Welcome to Taipy! This guide will walk you through the process of installing Taipy 

> and building your first application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Welcome to Taipy! This guide will show you how to install Taipy 
and create your first application.
```

## Install Taipy with pip

To get started with Taipy, ensure that you have Python (version 3.8 or higher) and
[pip](https://pip.pypa.io) installed on your system. Once you have these prerequisites, 
open your terminal or command prompt and run the following command to download and

> install the latest stable release of Taipy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To begin with Taipy, ensure you have Python installed (version 3.8 or higher) along with
[pip](https://pip.pypa.io) on your system. Once you have these prerequisites, 
open your terminal or command prompt and run the following command to get the latest stable version of Taipy downloaded and installed:
```

``` console
$ pip install taipy
```

> !!! info "Other Installation Options"

Reviewer 2: => "Other installation options"

    
    If you need alternative installation methods or if you don't have Python 
    or pip installed, please refer to the [installation page](installation/index.md)

>     for additional instructions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    You can find additional instructions on the [installation page](installation/index.md) 
    if you require different ways to install Taipy or don't have Python or pip installed.
```

## First Taipy Scenario 
Taipy introduces the concept of a *Scenario* to model pipeline executions. 
A *Scenario* consists of an execution graph, often represented as a Directed 
Acyclic Graph (DAG), where tasks (or functions) exchange data. Your scenario 

> can be as simple or as complex as your needs require.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Acyclic Graph (DAG), where tasks (or functions) exchange data. You can make your 
scenario as easy or as complicated as you want, depending on what you need.
```

For your first scenario, we'll create a simple "Hello World" example 
to demonstrate the configuration process. Here's an illustration of the 
scenario's execution graph made of two data nodes (blue boxes) and one task 

> (orange box):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For your first scenario, we'll make a straightforward "Hello World" example 
to show you how the setup works. Here's a picture of the
scenario's execution graph, which has two data nodes (blue boxes) and one task 
(orange box):
```

![hello world example](hello_world.svg){width=50%}

> It consists in one input data node named *name*. Then a task named 
> *build_message* takes the first data node and returns a second 
> data node named *message*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This involves a single input data node called *name*.  Afterward, a task called 
*build_message* takes the first initial data node and produces a second  
data node called *message*.
```

Building the corresponding Taipy application requires three easy steps.

### Configuration

The first step involves configuring the execution graph. This includes 
configuring data nodes, tasks, and scenario itself. 
Use the following Python code:

```python linenums="1"
from taipy import Config

def build_message(name: str):
    return f"Hello {name}!"

name_data_node_cfg = Config.configure_data_node(id="input_name")
message_data_node_cfg = Config.configure_data_node(id="message")
build_msg_task_cfg = Config.configure_task("build_msg", build_message, name_data_node_cfg, message_data_node_cfg)
scenario_cfg = Config.configure_scenario("scenario", task_configs=[build_msg_task_cfg])
```

> - Lines 4-5 define the function that the task will use during execution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Lines 4-5 define the task's function during execution.
```

- Lines 8-9 configure the two data nodes, *input_name* and *message*.

> - Line 10 configures a task named *build_msg* associated with the `build_message()`

Reviewer 2: => \*build_message()\*

>   function, specifying input and output data nodes.

Reviewer 2: "specifying input" -> "specifying the input"

- Finally, line 11 configures the execution graph of the scenario providing 
  the previously configured task.

### Running The Core service

> Running the Core service allows Taipy to process the configuration made in the 

Reviewer 2: The Core service "processes the configuration made in the  previous step"?

previous step and set up the scenario management feature.

Include the following code in your Python script:

> ``` python linenums="1"

Reviewer 2: The convention you use basically everywhere is not to have this white space after the three backticks

from taipy import Core

if __name__ == "__main__":
    Core().run()
```

> Line 3 is standard boilerplate code to ensure that your script runs only from the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Line 3 is standard boilerplate code to ensure your script runs only from the 
```

main module, preventing accidental execution. It is strongly recommended to include it.

> In line 4, we simply instantiate and run a Core service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In line 4, we instantiate and run a Core service.
```

> ### Creating Scenarios and accessing data

Reviewer 2: No capital to Scenarios

> Now that Taipy Core service is running, you can create and manage scenarios, submit 

Reviewer 2: "that Taipy Core service" -> "that the Taipy Core service"

> Now that Taipy Core service is running, you can create and manage scenarios, submit 
> task graphs for execution, and access data nodes. Here's a code snippet to demonstrate 
> these actions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the Taipy Core service up and running, you have the ability to create and manage scenarios, submit 
task graphs for execution, and access data nodes. Here's a code snippet to illustrate  
these actions:
```

> 

Reviewer 2: You may want to remove those two empty lines.
The code snippet is attached to the paragraph before.

```python linenums="1"
import taipy as tp

hello_scenario = tp.create_scenario(scenario_cfg)
hello_scenario.input_name.write("Taipy")
hello_scenario.submit()
print(hello_scenario.message.read())
```

In line 3, method `tp.create_scenario()` instantiates the new scenario name 

> `hello_scenario` from the scenario configuration built before.

Reviewer 2: \*hello_scenario\*

> Line 4, sets the input data node *input_name* of `hello_scenario` with the string 

Reviewer 2: same

> value "Taipy" using the write() method.

Reviewer 2: \`write()\`

> Line 5 submits the `hello_scenario` for execution, which triggers the creation 

Reviewer 2: same

and execution of a job. This job reads the input data node, passes the value 

> to the `build_message()` function, and writes the result to the output data node.

Reviewer 2: same
... then in the rest of the text body.

Only API elements should have a fixed size font.

> Line 6 reads and prints the output data node `message` that has been written by 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Line 6 reads and prints the output data node `message` written by 
```

the execution of the scenario `hello_scenario`.

> Putting all together the pieces, here is the Python code corresponding to the example:

Reviewer 2: "here is the Python code corresponding to the example" -> "you can download the entire Python code for the example from \[this link\]\(hello_world_scenario.py\)"

<a href="./hello_world_scenario.py" download>`hello_world_scenario.py`</a>

> And here is the expected output.

Reviewer 2: "output." -> "output:"

``` console
[2023-02-08 20:19:35,062][Taipy][INFO] job JOB_build_msg_9e5a5c28-6c3e-4b59-831d-fcc8b43f882e is completed.
Hello Taipy!
```

## Graphical Interface

In the previous step, you used Taipy Python APIs to access, edit, and submit a scenario. 

> This interaction is commonly implemented within Python functions triggered 
> by end-user actions in a graphical interface built using Taipy. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This interaction is typically integrated into Python functions that get triggered
by end-user actions in a graphical interface built using Taipy. 
```

> In this section we propose a basic graphical interface to interact with the scenario 
> created before. Use the following Python code :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this section, we suggest a simple graphical interface for interacting with the previously created 
scenario. Use the following Python code:
```

``` python
from taipy import Gui

hello_scenario = None
input_name = "Taipy"
message = None

def submit_scenario(state):
    state.hello_scenario.input_name.write(state.input_name)
    state.hello_scenario.submit(wait=True)
    state.message = hello_scenario.message.read()

page = """
Name: <|{input_name}|input|>

<|submit|button|on_action=submit_scenario|>

Message: <|{message}|text|>
"""

if __name__ == "__main__":
    Core().run()
    hello_scenario = tp.create_scenario(scenario_cfg)
    Gui(page).run()
```

TODO: explain the code above and result below

![result](result.png){width=50%}

> Putting all together the scenario and the Gui pieces, here is the complete python code 
> corresponding to the example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Combining both the scenario and the GUI components, here's the full Python code 
for the example:
```

> <a href="./hello_world.py" download>`hello_world.py`</a>

Reviewer 2: same as above.

> This concludes the basic steps to get you started with Taipy. For more realistic 
> use cases and advanced features, refer to the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That covers the fundamental steps to begin with Taipy. For more realistic 
use cases and advanced features, refer to 
```
